This is Matt Russell, and today I have
Cas Nation, CEO of OpenDoor, fresh off
the first quarter 2026 earnings release.
And we get into what is driving the
strong execution quarter to quarter
here. We've seen the product rollouts,
the sales velocity, and the margin
improvements that have OpenDoor EBITDA
positive as of April 1st, 2026, and on
track to be adjusted net income positive
by the end of the year. Cas is a
fascinating CEO to watch, to follow, to
listen to, and he does not disappoint.
So, please enjoy our conversation.
>> [music]
>> I actually want to start bigger picture
here. If you go back to February 2025,
you are still at Shopify. You're ready
to sell all of your possessions, lever
up, and buy OpenDoor, take it private.
You end up becoming the CEO in a much
more traditional way, I would say. But,
if you just look back on your thesis
then, compared to where you are now,
having run the business for some period
of time, how much has changed since
you've taken over and been inside the
operation? Well, like two things. First,
it was my wife that wanted to sell all
of our possessions to take OpenDoor, or
at least she was one who encouraged me
to think about it. But, there are two
things that have actually held
in my mind. I like to take try to be
like thoughtful about this. The first is
um the company is actually structurally
in much better shape than I thought it
would be. Like the underlying
uh models of the company, the underlying
databases, the underlying processes are
just in much better shape than I
expected they would be. I think the
company had kind of started this doom
loop of going down and down and down,
but it does feel a lot like in Raiders
of the Lost Ark when there's a guy
guarding the cup. There's a bunch of
people here who were still guarding the
cup and that had kept it in a really
decent shape. But, actually the
underlying model is just honestly in
just very good shape.
Uh we've invested a lot in it, but I'm
actually very impressed. Second, uh I
significantly underestimated the attach
opportunity. I
have basically done this whole like
attach services thing my whole career
and I did not expect our first crack at
this to go so well.
Those are two two upsides. Generally,
I'm just been very impressed. The The
main downside, honestly, just to like be
very like self-reflective, I was
honestly shocked by
uh
how the company was basically being run
by outside consultants
for so long. Like it feels like the
people who were making decisions for the
company basically had almost no stake in
the outcome of those decisions.
So, the OpEx was just honestly stupid.
And not just stupid, but like spent on
the wrong things.
Uh and I think that was actually um
offensive. Based on the OpEx metrics
today uh versus when you stepped in,
you've done something about that. So, I
think it's been reflected in terms of
your actions. I want to go back a little
bit to your point on the attachment and
even just higher level, when I
first came across OpenDoor, I had a very
simple view that it was essentially
a real estate asset manager based around
tech. And that is overly simplified, but
you clearly distinguished it as a
software platform.
Uh how do you think about the capital
intensity and the underwriting skill set
required to run the business when you're
clearly aiding all that with the
technology, but how do you think about
that aspect of it, which I think many,
let's say, traditional investors, the
East Coast types, can get hung up on? I
think that the underlying assumption
about the business are just
fundamentally wrong. And by the way, I
say the underlying assumptions are
fundamentally wrong, those assumptions
were held by some people inside the
building for a while.
So, it's not like
people in New York were wrong, people in
San Francisco were also wrong. Saying
OpenDoor is an asset manager that
happens to have software is like saying
Amazon in its early day was a warehouser
of books that just happened to have
software. Did Amazon warehouse books?
Sure, but was it a warehouser of books?
No, like that's not where the leverage
comes from.
Right? The very real difference between
being a prop desk and a market maker,
like to talk about, you know, New York
language,
like if you're a prop desk and you hold
assets for profit,
you do one set of things. If you're a
market maker
and you your fundamental job is to not
hold assets for profit, you do a
different set of things.
OpenDoor is a market maker, not a prop
desk, at core asset level. So, do we
have to be very good at underwriting?
Damn right we do. We have the best
underwriting engine
in the business. There's nothing close
to it, right? And I say this as a
honest-to-goodness nerd.
But, there is a very real
difference about where that underwriting
engine is pointed towards. If you look
at a company like, you know, Citadel,
Citadel gathers a crap ton of data.
A crap ton of data. Why do they do it?
Like the end matters as much as the
means matter. I'm coming to appreciate
many people got caught up with trust the
process. I think you're you're really
like trust the outcome and trust the end
point.
You're putting that into vogue, which I
I can appreciate. And on that point just
about I I think it's a really great way
to distinguish
market maker versus prop desk. It gets
into this concept around spread versus
velocity.
What does it mean in practice to really
focus on velocity?
And you know, I'll I'll tee it up. Is it
really focusing on markets where there's
higher turnover of homes? Is it really
just focusing on capturing less spread?
Therefore, we can sell faster. Like if
you were to kind of stack rank or or
rank the really important drivers to
that focus on velocity, what would those
be? If you think about it,
OpenDoor has an embedded advantage
compared to every other buyer and seller
race state in our cost of capital. We're
just bigger, right? We're just
relatively big. We've got a great
capital markets team, but that has not
been adequately used by the company.
Like do you mind if I just go on like a
rant for a second cuz I think this
actually
>> do. The best reason why you want to
always be in a flow market, like at the
end of the day, like
uh
card counters at a blackjack table play
play every hand.
The reason they play every hand is to
get more information.
Like the information is the point,
right?
When we buy lots of homes and sell them
very quickly, we get very live feedback
about actual market conditions, not just
about the clearance price,
also about the renovation process, also
about the demand that impacts every
other demand. We actually pick up data
in a way that no one else does. And by
the way, we're ahead of the market. So,
even if you were scraping all data you
could from MLS's,
you're like 90 to 120 days behind us.
We're picking it up live. We have access
to data in a way that like very few
people do, right?
Like when you are a market maker at a
stock exchange, everyone sees the up and
down. We have like
a 90 to 120 day advantage on the market.
It's a very real thing, but you can't
use that advantage
if you decide you want to have very high
margin on every single trade.
Right? Let's say
um you want to have high spreads in
buying an asset.
So, I come to you. You think your home
is worth $400,000. I agree it's worth
$400,000. If I offer you $300,000 for
it,
you will tell me to take a hike. The
only scenario under which you will not
tell you to tell me to take a hike is if
you know things I do not know.
I am paying
for a negative feedback loop.
Right? I'm not actually getting $100,000
of spread. There isn't that much arb in
real estate.
But if I actually am able to have very
tight spreads such that you can say,
"Look, if I list my home, I have to pay
realtor fees, taxes, holding costs. I
have to have an odd of the home falling
through. I have to have 90 to 120 day
hold periods that has a cost to me." If
I can add those up and I can come to you
saying, "Look, I will do it for you
faster, cheaper, more certain."
Right? You will say yes to me as a
rational human being.
And I still have significant room for
margin. If I can compress that, so I can
buy from you at a better deal with more
certainty with selling to market and
sell to the next person at a better deal
more certainty with buying from market.
I'm just increasing my information
advantage.
And by the way,
as we've shown, we also have significant
attached opportunities.
Right? We own a title and escrow
business, which is growing very quickly.
Uh we have a a mortgage product, which
is like
just excellent. And the things you need
to do to underwrite a home, to acquire
it, underwrite the home for mortgage,
and underwrite a home for insurance are
all identical to each other. In a
traditional market maker world, like in
the stock market, the attached
opportunities aren't as significant.
Whereas in this world, the attached
opportunities are significant.
So, as long as I can move fast, uh the
business works.
This episode is brought to you by
Portrait. It's the AI research system
that I used to prepare for today's
episode and for all Business Breakdowns
episodes. Portrait was built by former
buy-side investors, and they understand
great investing isn't just about having
more information from low-quality
sources. It's about having the right
information organized the right way.
And if you listen to this show, you
appreciate diligence consists of many
things. Diving into the history of a
business, framing the nuanced
competitive dynamics, tracking key
signposts around your thesis. And
historically, that would take [music] up
material time that you do not have. But
Portrait is basically like adding an
army of analysts to your team.
>> [music]
>> It's powered by an AI system
specifically designed for investment
research workflows.
>> [music]
>> So, you get nuanced idea generation.
Portrait assesses the same types of
qualitative attributes that we discuss
on this show, and that can help identify
businesses which fit your frameworks.
Portrait also customizes
research report generation. And I used
Portrait to generate a primer and lay
out bull bear cases ahead of today's
episode to help frame the conversation.
And third, there's intelligent thesis
monitoring. And that's where a portrait
assesses [music] thousands of data
points across value chains each day,
extracting the insights driving the
business. Again, all this work would
typically take hours and hours and
hours. It's at your fingertips now.
Visit portraitresearch.com
to start your free trial today.
If I were to ever want to sell my house,
why would I pick OpenDoor? Because I
could do it faster. I could get the
offer quickly. Um
the likelihood of closing, I know
there's still, you know, not every
contract you go into closes. Um but
that's
focused on speed and almost removing uh
the inconveniences associated with
real estate sales, which there are many.
What would you say that's an accurate
depiction, or am I shrinking the
customer base too widely when you think
about who the ideal partners are? No,
you're you're shrinking the customer
base too widely. I think what you're
saying
uh was true of the company some time
ago.
Where the people who sold to OpenDoor
were people who wanted to move fast at a
high risk at a high cost, right?
Death, divorce, delinquencies, people
who like
under stress like yes, but I need to
move fast. I understand there's a cost.
Our customer base is really quickly
changing.
If you look at the family that we talked
about in earnings, the Watsons,
they weren't in that much of a rush.
They wanted to move from California to
Colorado.
Like they could have moved at any time.
But OpenDoor, they bought a home from
OpenDoor cuz it was a great deal. They
took a mortgage from OpenDoor cuz it was
a great deal. And they sold a home to
OpenDoor cuz it was objectively a great
deal.
But it wasn't that like they value
certainty, obviously.
But they could have tested the market,
and they would have been worse off. My
job is to go to family and say the
product genuinely is better for you.
And that's what we want to do, right?
And I put away like
overwhelmingly that is true.
Like now, we are going to get better and
better at this. Our spreads are going to
get tighter and tighter over time.
But my job is to make sure that when you
want to take
uh
your next move and you want to buy a
home, sell a home that you think of
OpenDoor the way you think about Uber.
The way you think about Amazon.
The way you think about your market
maker. To your point on
attachment possibilities, uh you've
started to roll out some of these um
various options out there and I am
curious when you think about long-term
that spread being tight, seeing more
velocity going through, what do those
represent just in terms of the profit
pool and the pie for the business? What
are the things that naturally attach
to real estate and what are the embedded
margin or at least the embedded gross
cost opportunity?
Right?
There's a transaction cost of 6 to 7%
everyone understands it.
The title and escrow cost of, you know,
1 to 2% there.
There is mortgage where the average
margin is 300, 350, 400 basis points
there. There's insurance where the
average margin is, you know, 100 to 200
basis points there. There is home care,
there is um satellite dishes, like
there's satellite dishes, like there's
solar all these things add up, right?
Some of these are friction, some of
these are premium products.
Some of these you have to have. You
can't like mortgage isn't an option for
most people.
You have to have a mortgage provider.
Now,
if I can take a series of
services
in a highly fragmented market
all whom have very low and NPS scores.
And jammed them all together and say,
"Great. All the profit made by all these
players in the stack and all the
inefficiencies by all these players in
the stack because they all have to pay
for CAC
and I don't.
Um they all have to pay for gathering of
information. I don't. That's like the
opportunity and look,
it is the single largest market in the
world. It is significantly bigger than
the stock market.
And I think you can believe like
whatever you want about
the underlying uh business of OpenDoor.
Like you can just
you have a variety of opinions about
OpenDoor uh and me.
What I think is very hard to say
is
that the largest real estate company on
the public market in the United States
could not be very large. There isn't a
hundred billion-dollar market cap real
estate company in the public markets in
the US. That's just like that that that
does feel like a flaw in the matrix. I
think most people would say based on
their experience that it is one ripe for
disruption or
there there's opportunity to improve on
the experience. The stack as it exists
sucks. It's just terrible.
And it's set up in a way that people
take advantage of information asymmetry
in a way that you don't do anywhere
else. It's just like that this doesn't
exist. Like it's very odd. On the
attachment opportunities, you are often
mentioning that you don't like to
announce or tease products before they
are formally launched. But if you just
think about prioritization, which is a
big thing for you, in rollouts. Do you
have an an order of operations or an
order of focus when it comes to
um mortgage, title and escrow,
attachment rate, um just generally
speaking, anything along those lines?
What you want to create in order to
simplify a system is a thin waist.
Right? You want to be able to actually
have a thin waist you can simplify the
rest of it.
For e-commerce, that's checkout.
Like the checkout is what actually runs
the business logic on either side of
transaction.
That doesn't exist in real estate.
So, for us, the priority is creating
checkout for real estate in the United
States.
That by necessity means we care a lot
about title and escrow.
Like title and escrow is a thing we care
a lot about.
On title and escrow, like once we solve
that, lots of other things in the system
just becomes simpler. It's public that
we have a mortgage product live uh in
Colorado and we'll have a bunch of other
states soon.
That's obviously second.
Uh we have
I think home warranty is very high on
the priority stack.
Then insurance
uh and then a bunch of other services.
I think I think for what it's worth, I
think like it's not that hard to imagine
why Opendoor is almost an ideal provider
of solar services. Give me that vision.
Uh just how you would lay it out. Is
post-close? We buy
homes. Lots of homes we buy
lease their solar panels from someone
else.
It's very imagine easy to imagine how we
can buy those solar panels and then
lease them to Next Solar. That's just
the easiest version of it. There's a
couple of versions that get slightly
more complicated.
But more importantly,
just go down the stack of financing.
You're a next banker. Uh you're good at
this.
So, imagine like what it takes to
underwrite the risk
of any given asset class. How correlated
is a risk to leasing someone a solar
panel to underlying home?
How correlated is that risk to mortgage?
How correlated are all these risks to
insurance?
Right?
I think that you you'll get to a point
where
you used to actually buy Cars have a
very interesting history. You used to
buy your engine separately from the
carriage. It was like actually a real
thing. There are people who make the
body of the car, there are people who
make the engine, and they just go buy
them, but we decided that was
exceptionally done.
Uh but we still buy homes the same way.
Like the way we buy cars is we usually
get financing from the person who sells
us the car.
And the car usually comes the way we
want it.
The way we buy a home is we deal with a
couple of dozen different buddy like
parties in the system.
And they all hate each other.
It's a very, very weird hack on the
system that has been maintained. When
you think about introducing uh those
various things that you could attach to
uh the purchase or sale of a home, um
each one does potentially involve
friction. You know, the mortgage doesn't
go through or the insurance,
any one of these things. How do you
solve for that when um yes, it it's
naturally you know, would be a great
thing, but could they add friction, slow
things down in terms of velocity? Tell
me where that that thesis is wrong or
how you solve for that. Man, I think
you're just straight up wrong. Man, I
think there's a very real thing.
Actually, maybe you're not wrong. Maybe
you are just like No, I I would love
just Yeah, you don't have to mince
words.
So, I I think there's a lot of fud that
comes from people who provide point
solutions that say, "My point solution
is so complex that you could possibly
never mix it with another one.
Let me give you an example.
The two products at Shopify, Shopify
payments, and Shopify tax.
Both of which had extremely high
penetration rates
and used by basically everyone. Uh if
you happen to
own
a restaurant in New York and you went to
go to your payment provider and said,
"Hey, I'm considering getting this tax.
Can you do tax for me?" They're "Oh, no,
you should stay with us because it's so
complicated." Look, are there complexity
in the system? Of course there are. Of
course there are.
But for 80% of people, 100% of these
services
are relatively vanilla.
80% of people are the margin opportunity
that pays for 20% of complexity. That
just seems terrible for those 80%.
So, do I think someone who wants to buy
a $14 million mansion who has no US
residency,
who has
trusts all over the world, and multiple
cars should be able to use,
you know, OpenDoor home loan and
OpenDoor insurance and all the other
services? Like, no.
I don't think they should use us.
But I don't think the average American
living in South Dakota should pay the
mar- like pay for that subsidy. Like,
our job is to make life easier for the
average person, the home like the school
teacher, the plumber, the electrician.
Like, they should not have to pay more
because complexity exists in the system.
And by the way, I say this as a guy
who has complexity in his life.
Like, there's no reason why the average
person should subsidize my life. That
sounds insane.
Well, like, that's what we have That's
the world we live in, right? My job is
this at OpenDoor. I want the teacher in
Kansas City
to have a one-click mortgage,
title, escrow, and home buying
experience, and home selling experience.
That's what we're going to work on.
We're going to solve this for a teacher
in Kansas City.
All the dudes living where you live, uh,
with their Maseratis can go to someone
else.
No Maseratis in the park in the, uh, in
the garage. I'm not saying you have one,
to be clear.
>> [laughter]
>> In terms of, um, the go forward, you
brought up multiple times, you know, you
you have this path to profitability, but
also you're not afraid to invest in the
business.
And I just want to think about that
philosophically, how you approach that,
um,
because, you know, sometimes you want to
heavily invest when there's an
opportunity to go after something.
You've made it clear that that path to
profitability, uh, at certain points in
time in terms of EBITDA positive and
adjusted net income positive by
year-end. Um,
how are you balancing that with, uh,
whatever need there is to reinvest back
in the business or how you're going to
balance the investment back in the
business with that?
>> My wife, uh, wanted me to work out, um,
because I'd become like really
unhealthy, so she bought me, um,
some weights and a bench.
And then I like just totally ignored
them,
uh, and didn't work out, so she then put
the bench at our bedroom door and the
weights on it. I couldn't get out of bed
room without actually seeing those
things.
I think OpenDoor requires some of that
energy.
Like, I think OpenDoor has had too
little discipline when it comes to
being, uh, a for-profit business
because it has been able to reach for
capital markets over and over again.
Uh, and I think that has been actually
bad for OpenDoor. So, I think it's
incredibly important for us to be
incredibly disciplined, and this will be
painful as hell.
It'll just be painful. This will
hopefully be the last job I ever have.
And I care about
um my job and the company I'm running a
decade from now.
And the best thing I can do for that
company
is ensure this company is the most
disciplined and most aggressive tech
company in the market. That's the real
answer.
I don't Now, am I
forgoing area of growth that I would not
forgo if I had um lots of profits? Yes,
I am. For sure I am. But I think there's
a very real thing, man, where I think
this is healthy discipline.
I think it's healthy.
Uh and I think it's important that
OpenDoor be funded by its cash flow.
I think actually would surprise people
to learn how few engineers work at
OpenDoor.
OpenDoor has fewer than 70 engineers. I
think that would surprise most people.
We're getting a crap ton done with those
70 engineers,
but I promise you I know what every
single one of them is working on
because
uh we don't have the luxury of waste. I
heard you mention in another interview
that you you've had some people
um make some pretty powerful changes
within the business uh along the lines
of engineering changes, but they did it
with AI system. So, it's actually a nice
segue into into that question. I mean,
how much is your ability to operate with
70 engineers um just the power of both
those engineers and
those without an engineering background
able to do a lot more in that regard?
Our engineers are just excellent. Just
genuinely excellent.
Um our head of data
uh is ex-signal intelligence officer who
used to run a very complicated system
for one of the world's largest
militaries. We have multiple YC founders
in the building that have joined uh
uh in the last few months.
Uh two from my batch at YC alone.
Um so we have excellent just genuinely
excellent engineers here. So we have
excellent engineers. But there's like a
division of labor between
uh systems that create leverage for
other people and those front ends,
right?
So our engineers spend their time
creating systems that allow other people
who are not engineers to create leverage
for themselves. When I got here, we had
an entire service uh
whose job it was
to calculate
and was maintained by an engineer
whose job was to calculate RSU
allocations for employees. I can't tell
you how nutty a waste of time that is
for an engineer. But basically all
companies have this. I'm like, why is an
engineer working on this?
Like Look, if you cannot, using Claude
or ChatGPT or Codex or Grok,
write a SQL query, you should not be
working at a tech company. This is a
tech company. I can see actually our
head of internal com- internal coms
right there. Um our uh PR consultants
all quit when I joined. Um they actually
all rage quit. Uh and I can tell you our
our head of internal coms, who now
actually
sits at her desk, does this work for us?
And spends most of her time on Claude.
And so does everyone else in the
company. And I think that is different
than most other companies. Thank you
very much for taking the time after
uh that conference call that you just
had. I appreciate it and I will say the
words that are always important after
earnings. Congrats on a great quarter.
Have a great day, dude.
Likewise.